

The Theravada Trade Economy

The term ‘Theravada Trade Economy’ may sound unfamiliar to you.

We have learned that in the past, different countries followed different economic systems. Some economic systems were successful while some failed.

We intend to develop our economy by generating income through several sectors under the Theravada Trade Economic System.

During the Kingdom of Rajarata in ancient Sri Lanka, an economic system based on the concept of Theravada was practiced.

Under this economic system, we exercised trade with countries from China to Persia. Sri Lanka was considered the economic center of the Indian Ocean, and was a key hub of the ancient Silk Road.

Our country was equipped with the mechanism, facilities and the capability to distribute grain to the entire Eastern part of the world, which is why Sri Lanka was called the ‘Granary of the East’.

In the 13th Century, when the Kingdom of Rajarata collapsed, the Kingdom of Ayodhya which is present day Thailand, captured its trade. These two kingdoms dominated the regional market for 18 centuries.

But in recent years, Sri Lanka and Thailand have strived to regain economic strength.

In the late 1980s, Thailand transformed itself into a market economy based on exports and tourism. Sri Lanka was limited to domestic production and accordingly, imports became a substitution.

Our economic policies have been primarily focused on domestic production. The deficit is imported since the domestic products are not sufficient for daily needs. The budget deficit is settled by local and foreign debts.

The Lord Buddha has shown in the Samaññaphala Sutta that loans should be taken not for consumption but for investment. We have ignored such an important economic concept. By 2022 there was a burden of about worth USD 84 billion over our shoulders, but most of those loans have been utilised for consumption. As a result, we lost our image and reputation before the world, two years ago. The country completely collapsed.

By the year 2022, the economy of the country had undergone a severe contraction. The GDP dropped. The foreign sector of the economy collapsed. And then, the rupee started depreciating. The value of the dollar, which was 183.61 rupees in 2019, rose up to 363.11 rupees by 2022. Inflation, which was 3.53% in 2019, increased up to 70% in 2022.

As a result of the decreasing rate of development, the rate of decline of the economy accelerated. The only way to lessen the cost of living is to hit breaks on the country’s decline and work towards an acceleration in the development of the economy.

We Started Fresh

Initiating a tough mission of recovery, we started negotiations with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The situation of the economy was serious during the initial discussions, and this weak position of the country posed a disadvantage to our standpoint during the discussions. But we did not give up, for, our aim was to transform the country back to normal; our expectation was to build country which never sees queues for essential needs again.

And today, the world has accepted that the Theravada trade economy followed by us is a resounding success.

Reduced Cost of Living

We strive to lighten your burdens in life by reducing the cost of living, it will be part of our bigger plan of strengthening the economy. We will not borrow more and more foreign loans, as a strategy to gain popularity, for such reliefs are temporary.

Because of the plan we followed, inflation which was 70% in 2022 dropped to 2.81 by July 2024. The buying rate of USD which was initially 400 rupees has now dropped below 300 rupees. In 2022, one litre of 92 Petrol was Rs. 470, but today it is Rs. 344. One litre of Auto diesel was Rs. 460 back then, but today it is Rs. 317. The electricity bills and water bills are gradually decreasing.

As a result, the cost of living is reducing day by day. Sri Lanka is gradually coming back to normalcy.

More measures will be taken to further lighten the burden of living by providing essential items at more concessional rates in future.

Yes, we can!

Tax Relief

The fiscal reforms that were implemented since 2015 were suddenly suspended in 2019 by the then government. Taxes were reduced unreasonably. Government revenue dropped to the lowest level in the world. It is one of the main reasons for the country to fall into an economic disaster.

We sought the assistance of the IMF to save our country. We stood before them as a bankrupt nation that had broken their agreement 16 times. Hence, we had no power for negotiations. We had to accept their conditions to move the country forward.

That is why we had to impose taxes. We did not do it willingly. We were out of options at that time. Doctors, engineers, and university academics had to suffer due to the taxes imposed.

However, now that the economy of the country has gained momentum and we have reached some stability, we received consensus from the IMF to revisit the tax conditions.

Accordingly, it has been proposed to increase the gap between the present tax slabs and to amend tax percentages.

Very soon, we can take a final decision in this regard.

We will be taking steps to pay tax-free service incentives to professionals in the future.

Many people are suffering due to indirect taxes; we will take measures to systematically abolish indirect taxes.

These two tasks will be executed within the next two years and tax relief will be provided to taxpayers, very soon.

According to the agreements made with the IMF, we should increase our tax revenue up to 14% of the GDP from next year. We hope to increase tax revenues by expanding the tax payment platform and making the revenue collection more efficient.

The entrepreneurs who strengthen the economy are facing hardships due to tax burden. But, as the economy becomes more stable, their tax burden will be gradually reduced. The process of providing relief to entrepreneurs will commence in 2025.

Let’s Look at Thailand and Vietnam

Vietnam, a Mahayana Buddhist nation, stands as a fine example. In 1990, Vietnam followed our economic policy, but in 1995, it adopted the economic policy of Thailand. The results of the economic development of Vietnam speak for themselves.

Thailand and Vietnam have successfully crossed the rope bridge.

We have also started to follow the Theravada market economy, but it will only be successful if we meet the following targets.

We will adhere to the following plan;

* No permission will be given to withhold arrears of government payments for more than three months.

* Printing of money by the Central Bank to settle the budget deficit will be strictly prohibited.

* The price for electricity and fuel, should be decided based on the cost borne. If the Electricity Board and the Ceylon Petroleum Corporation incur losses, the Treasury should immediately and directly provide funds for the same.

* The amount spent on social security should not be reduced beyond the amount prescribed.

These targets and limits are fixed and we will not compromise or negotiate them under any circumstance.

Our official creditors and China have granted us the concessions, subject to the above targets and limits.

If we cannot achieve those targets and limits, we will lose not only the assistance of the IMF, but also all the debt concessions. In which case that happens, we will fall back to the bottomless abyss and will be beyond redemption.

During the election period, many political parties will hide this truth and give you various false promises, but none of those promises are practical, but mere lies to win votes. This is why none of those parties or candidates have come forward for an open discussion with the IMF.

Towards a Thriving Nation

We are aimed at creating an export-oriented manufacturing and service economy.

If the economy is not strengthened, any other sector of the country cannot be developed. A hungry nation has no room for spiritual development. Lord Buddha has also pointed out that it is useless to preach to a hungry person.

If we do not proceed with this plan, we will face an even worse economic crisis in a few years. It can only be prevented by moving forward on the path we have followed so far.

We cannot be indebted to the world forever. A debt economy cannot uplift a nation. But, if we continue along this path, we will be able to build a debt-free, developed economy by 2048.

A Generation Free of Poverty

Around 25% of the community is facing various hardships due to the Covid-19 pandemic and the recent economic crisis. Be it the unavailability of opportunities, lack of facilities to get a decent education, denied access to clean water and electricity, unemployment, or denied rights to get married and raise children, all these issues have to be addressed.

We pledge to prioritise providing solutions to these problems. We will work hard to reduce the proportion of low-income people suffering from diverse hazards to 10%, during the next 5 years. We have formulated the National Social Protection Policy which would lay a foundation to solving this issue.

The action plan to redeem people from poverty will be carried out systematically. ‘Aswesuma’ and ‘Samurdhi’ programmes will be integrated and utilised for this purpose accordingly.

We have identified the communities that are suffering from extreme poverty and social oppression. These families will be made regular participants in divisional development programmes and priority will be given to such communities when recruiting employees for government projects related to local infrastructure development, thereby empowering them economically.

Areas with such community groups will be further identified and special attention will be given to those areas in complying with the overall programme to eradicate poverty.

Towards a Beautiful 2048

The Theravada Trade Economy will ensure an adequate standard of living for all the citizens. We will be able to create a highly competitive, export-oriented digital green economy through this journey, and we will be able to achieve all our economic goals by 2048. We have already passed and implemented the primary laws aiming for necessary transformation towards such a development stage.

Particularly, the Central Bank Act, the Public Finance Management Act, the Public Debt Management Act and the Economic Transformation Act hold a significant importance in this matter and through these enactments, the following will be achieved;

I. New employment opportunities will be created, and thereby the job market will be expanded. New income generation opportunities will be created.

II. The income generation will be increased.

Most of the countries worldwide have achieved development by resting a larger fraction of the economy on the private sector. We plan to establish the Theravada Trade Economy on a wider dimension.

We will add two sectors to our economy to compete with a robust private sector.

I. The Government Sector

The Government has the power to regulate the entire economic system. Government-owned banks, financial institutions and enterprises conduct this financial management on a competitive basis.

II. Peoples’ Sector

Article 27(2)(e) of the Constitution is the basis for the new concept of the Peoples’ Sector.

“The establishment of a just social order in which the means of production, distribution and exchange are not concentrated and centralised in the State, State agencies or in the hands of a privileged few, but are dispersed among and owned by, all the People of Sri Lanka;”

In order to make the Peoples’ Sector a solid stakeholder in the economy,

* Opportunities will be given to every citizen to be entitled to a land or a house
* National Wealth Fund will be established
* The cooperative movement will be completely restructured

Property Rights

A separate authority will be established to ensure systematic and expeditious delivery of rights to citizens. This will ensure land ownership to 2 million people through the ‘Urumaya’ programme and the transfer of low-income housing owned by the government in the Colombo city to the residents within 4 years.

Loans will be granted at concessional rates to middle-class families for the construction of houses. Low-income families shall be given the opportunity to own their houses in condominiums.

New villages will be established for the plantation workers and those living in line rooms will be granted the right to own a plot of land.

Several housing schemes will be launched under local and foreign investments within the next two years with the government intervention and we will encourage the local and foreign investors to construct apartments comprising of numerous floors covering all the major cities in the country.

The above measure will pave the way to reviving the construction industry which has been halted at present, within the next two years.

Financial Rights

Significant Trade Union representation will be allowed in the Board membership of the Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) and Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF). Representatives from the Chamber of Commerce will also be included to ensure better financial administration.

These funds are currently utilised for government purposes. Whenever the government faces a shortage of finance, these funds are utilised for treasury bonds. We aim to change this practice. When the economy of the country is stable, the utilisation of these funds for government purposes will eventually cease.

This would allow the investment of these funds in safe local and international financial institutions which would bring a high income to the country. By 2023, the Employees’ Provident Fund and the Employees’ Trust Fund will become the largest investment fund in the country. This would bring more benefits to the members of the fund.

* National Wealth Fund

The National Wealth Fund will be formed by combining the budget surplus and the profits of government institutions. This fund will be invested in local and international stock markets.

* Cooperatives

The cooperative movement will be completely reorganised in accordance with international standards. New rules will be introduced to make the cooperative movement independent so that changes in political and government systems will not intervene in the management of this sector. A series of new cooperative laws will be adopted in compliance with the cooperative model functioned in Scandinavian countries. The cooperative movement will thus be raised to a higher level to make it capable of facing the current market competition.

Operation – Beyond 2025

This operation is 100% practical. It has been designed based on the future growth rate of development of the country, scientific estimates about the future income generated, and the resources that could be utilised. That is why this plan includes specific time frames as well.

Pros and Cons of Climate

There are a number of climate change challenges we will have to face in future as a tropical country, such as the increase of global warming, changes in rainfall, and sea level rise.

We foresaw these issues and took measures within the last two years, paving the way for a green economy. Thus, we have been taking action to lay a foundation to convert the disadvantages of global climate change into advantages for our country.

We have been given a foremost place in the World Climate Change Programme due to our commitment to addressing climate change. We have launched a number of initiatives in this regard such as the Climate Justice Forum, the Climate Prosperity Plan and the International Climate Change University.

We are a principal stakeholder of the Global Financing Pact entered into by the countries of the Global North and the Global South under the patronage of France, in order to address the global climate changes. We have also joined the Global Blended Financial Alliance initiated by Indonesia focusing on the countries in the Global South.

We have launched a Tropical Region Collaboration programme at present with the aim of ensuring environmental safety in the tropical region.

Active participation in these initiatives provides us with opportunities to strengthen our economy. Creating an apt background for the said purpose, we are also determined to enforce the Climate Change Act.

We will be taking action to establish a Climate Change Secretariat and a Climate Change Fund, which will help us face climate challenges successfully while protecting our environment.

Sri Lanka has been blessed with a wealth of biodiversity. We wish to enact a new Biodiversity Law and establish a Regulatory Body to conserve the biodiversity of the country.

Since climate change is impacting all aspects of development, environmental-friendly procedures with a focus on the climate change, will introduced for the sectors such as the agriculture, industries, energy, etc, as specified in this five year action plan.

These tasks have already been initiated. The progress will be evident in future.

A Modern Agro-Culture

The current world population is around 8 billion. By 2050, this will increase by 29% totalling up to 9.8 billion. Agricultural production therefore should be increased to cater to this rising population in future.

Our target should be to supply at least a miniscule percentage of that requirement.

In this context, we will introduce a highly competitive export-oriented, high-income generating, modern agro-culture. We will encourage organic cultivation targeting large foreign markets.

Farmers will be provided with seeds, fertiliser and modern machinery required for modern agricultural methods. A supply chain where agro-products will be directly purchased from the farmers will be created. Establishment of a chain of storages across the island in order to uplift the rural agriculture industry, is also in the works.

Home garden cultivations and subsistence crop cultivations in urban apartments will be highly encouraged.

Three hundred thousand (300,000) acres of land will be allocated out of the underutilised State Land for commercial crop cultivation.

Proper instructions and assistance will be provided to Urumaya freehold deed recipient farmers to expand and improve their cultivations. We will encourage them to use those lands for productive crop cultivation and other agro-enterprises.

We have drawn up plans to modernise crop transport and sales, while minimizing waste during storage.

A well-organized programme to popularise the local foods in collaboration with the Government will be launched.

The completion of Malwathu Oya and North Western Province Canal Projects will be expedited in order to fulfil the water requirement for agricultural purposes and daily chores. The first phase of these projects is expected to be completed by 2030.

An amount of Rs. 25,000 will be directly credited to the accounts of farmers for the purchase of fertiliser and other requirements needed for paddy cultivation. A fixed-rate will be declared for the selling price of paddy from season to season.

A Sustainable Ocean Economy

Although our island home is surrounded by the ocean, even less than 40% of the boats we own at present are utilised for fishing. It is planned to implement a plan to reap maximum benefits from the ocean with the patronage of the local and foreign experts. This is expected to double the income of USD 300 million we currently earn via fisheries products exportation.

The freshwater fishery industry, prawn cultivation, aquatic plants, and ornamental fish industry are expected to be promoted and expanded.

The fishery harbours across the island will be developed and upgraded to Fishery Economic Centres. Fishing societies, fishermen, investors and experts will be linked to these centers in order to yield the best out of the economic centers.

We will be launching a concessionary scheme for the purchase of vessels from small fishing vessels to multi-day fishing trawlers. Foreign investments for the development of the fishery industry will be encouraged.

Steps will be taken to modernise the fishery industry to be in par with the international trends. The fishing community will be given the required assistance regarding the use of modern vessels, equipment and technology.

In this manner, within a period of a few years, we will be able to uplift the living standards of the fishing community.

Fishing towns around fishing harbours are expected to be developed and fishermen will be equipped with proper housing and other community facilities. Steps have already been taken to credit the fuel allowance provided to fishermen directly to their bank accounts.

These initiatives will be implemented within the year 2025.

Since we are an island, we are surrounded by a rich seabed, which we have not yet utilised to get maximum benefits. A long-term action plan to reap the maximum benefits of the resources in the seabed will be implemented with the aid of international expertise.

The first phase of all these plans will be launched from 2025 to 2029.

Strengthening the Dairy Sector

Only an amount of 35% of the dairy requirement is manufactured within the country. Due to the low dairy harvest, Milko Ltd operates many of its modern machinery only during a short period of the year.

As a result of this, USD 282 million flows to other countries for milk importation per year.

While 35 litres of milk is extracted from each cow in the Ambewela Private Farm daily, only about 5 litres are extracted from a cow in other dairy farms in the country.

A programme to raise the dairy harvest by connecting the National Livestock Development Board with Indian authorities related to the dairy industry is already in progress. This would positively impact the local dairy industry in the aspects of technology and investment.Through this programme, the following will be achieved.

* Increase the current annual dairy production from 380 million litres to 820 million litres by the year 2035.

* Provide a glass of fresh milk for all schoolchildren in the country free of charge.

* Be self-sufficient with dairy production and be able to save the money that flows out of the country to import milk and create income-generating opportunities with the byproducts manufactured using the excess.

* Provide facilities such as high genetic animals, animal food, medicine, and cattle semen for artificial insemination for over 200,000 of small dairy farmers and entrepreneurs.

* Provide 20,000 high-genetic cattle within the year 2025 for the local dairy farmers.

* Increase the income currently generated by local dairy farmers up to an amount more than 40 billion rupees by 2035 and thereby strengthen the rural economy.

* Launch a concessionary loan scheme for local dairy farmers.

* Increase the dairy harvest yielded by the local dairy farmers from one cow per day up to 20 litres.

The first phase of this programme will be launched in 2025 and the tasks will be completed by 2035.

Visit Sri Lanka

Sri Lanka is a top tourist destination in the world.

The infrastructure required to provide a better experience for the tourists will be upgraded and the tourist arrivals which is 2.5 million will be increased to 5 million within the forthcoming five years. The gross income received to the country from one tourist is currently USD 150, and it will be increased up to USD 500 by the year 2035.

The cities Colombo, Galle, Kandy and Trincomalee will be developed as the main tourist hubs. We will also provide necessary facilities to convert the Eastern coast and Jaffna to high-end tourist destinations. Steps will be taken to further increase the demand for the Southern coastal area. The tourist industry will be expanded to the hill country with better activities and attractions for tourists.

The sacred city of Anuradhapura will be transformed into an iconic city of cultural heritage, and it is expected to be as popular as the Sigiriya.

The construction of several tourist zones will be completed within the next five years;

* Iranawila – 400 acres
* Bentota – 1000 acres
* Haputale-Welimada – 100 acres

Public-Private Partnerships for various aspects of the tourism industry will be encouraged, which would include the refurbishment of hotels/rest houses and the construction of new hotels.

These tasks will be commenced in the year 2025 and completed by 2033.

Taking our Products to the World

If we need to take the next leap in the economy, we will have to uplift our industries and improve our products to a level where they can compete in the international market. We already have gained international acclamation for apparel, tyres for industrial vehicles, etc. and it is high time we utilised the recognition. It is expected to import modern machinery made with modern technology to improve the aforementioned productions. International investments, technology and expertise will thus be optimally utilised to overcome the current obstacles in order to nourish the production economy.

A new Economic Commission will be established for investment promotion and an Office for Internal Trade will be set up to oversee all aspects related to international trade.

Trincomalee is expected to be the Primary Economic Hub which will be equipped with a harbour, efficient transport, industrial facilities, energy generation possibilities and also naval and aviation strength. The Government of India has pledged to assist us in this matter.

I. Expansion of the Bingiriya Investment Promotion Zone has already commenced.

II. New Economic Zones will be established in Kankasanturai, Paranthan and Mankulam consisting of 1000 acres in 2025.

III. A new Investment Zone of 120 acres will be set up in Dompe by year 2027. Sapugaskanda Investment Promotion Zone will be expanded by 400 more acres.

IV. The first phase of the Hambantota Zone which will be constructed in an area of 4000 acres will commence in 2026.

V. A Technological Zone of approximately 100 acres will be established centered around the city of Kandy in 2026.

National Development Bank will be established in the year 2025, in order to fund the large-scale projects and industries.

The operation of several entities for the promotion of production industries is inconvenient to small and medium-scale entrepreneurs. Therefore, a new single entity will be established by the name of Enterprise Sri Lanka to address the requirements of entrepreneurs.

Micro, small and medium-scale entrepreneurs have faced major difficulties and see a downturn in their growth due to the recent economic crisis. A number of measures have been taken to resolve their issues. The interest rate of the loans up to 2.5 million issued to them, will be brought down to 5%. A Special Unit will be established for this purpose in the General Treasury to coordinate the related activities.

Provincial Councils will be provided with funds and guidelines and for the upliftment of micro, small and medium scale entrepreneurs at provincial level. Opportunities will also be given on selling their products.

A mechanism will be designed to sell their production through the currently operating and proposed economic centers.

We will address the issues faced by the owners of rice mill through a special mechanism.

Production industries will be operated on an environmental-friendly basis. An emission trading scheme will be introduced in line with international standards in order to minimise the environmental pollution caused by the industries. It will thereby control the emission of pollutants to the environment. Steps will be taken to introduce carbon tax.

Universal Power: Energy

Investments in renewable energy production including green hydrogen will be highly encouraged. It is targeted to obtain 70% of the power supply network from renewable energy sources which amounts to 2000 Megawatts by 2030.

Sri Lanka will thus be transferred to a Green Energy Hub and it will enable us to export energy to India and other neighbouring countries.

Natural gas power generation is also expected to see a rise.

The cost the citizens have to bear in respect of energy consumption will be reduced within the next few years and a continuous supply of electricity, fuel and gas is ensured without any scarcity or cut-off. The development of Trincomalee as an Energy Hub will strengthen the energy sector.

Digitalisation

The latest and the most advanced trends shaping the world in future are Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Automation based on digital technology. AI will be the base of all disciplines in future, health to education to financial and economic sectors.

A Technology Promotion Act will be passed in the year 2025 with the aim of bringing about a digital transformation. A Digital Transformation Agency and a Technology and Innovation Council will thereon be established. Amendments have already been made to the Sri Lanka Telecommunications Act in an attempt to create the background for this purpose.

Steps will be taken to accelerate the digital revolution through the introduction of internet services based on the satellite technology.

The present and future generation of the country will be brought closer to the new trends in technology. The young generation will be empowered with knowledge on digital technologies.

It is aimed to completely shift to e-Governance within a period of three years, by digitising the entire public service and utilising AI to deliver effective and efficient services to the public.

At present, the share of our digital economy is USD 5 billion. We will be laying a robust foundation required to raise that figure to USD 15 billion within the next five years.

A proper and comprehensive legal framework will be formulated to prevent and control the misuse of AI and to ensure the privacy of content and intellectual property rights. All trademarks will be protected through the Madrid Protocol.

Issuing the digital identity cards to citizens has already been initiated and it is expected to introduce an electronic voting system for elections in the near future.

A Knowledge-Based Society

A society which is equipped with knowledge and professional expertise should be created in order to overcome the technological, economic and societal challenges we have to undergo in future.

A new entity named Vocational Skills Sri Lanka (VSSL) will be established in the year 2025 amalgamating the National Apprentice and Industrial Training Authority and the Vocational Training Authority of Sri Lanka. All the vocational training schools and centres will be brought under its purview.

A Post-School Education Commission is also planned to be set up.

We will enable vocational training for students who are leaving school. As the initial step of this project, the government will provide the funds required to give vocational training to 5000 students in 2025. Basing this pilot project, funds will be more extensively provided with the assistance of the Asian Development Bank.

Provincial Vocational Education Boards will be established in all nine provinces before the end of 2026, and all the vocational training centres located in the provinces will be upgraded to vocational schools and brought under the established Provincial Vocational Education Boards.

Technical and Vocational and Management University Colleges will be opened in all the provinces, with faculties thereunder in all districts. Steps will be taken to award the related degrees upon the completion of an academic period of two years, similar to developed countries.

The subject of Technology has not been given significant attention in the current university system. A new university will be established in Galaha-Kandy with the sponsorship of the Chennai IIT (Chennai Institute of Information Technology). Several other Technological Universities will be opened in Hewagam Korale, Siyane Korale and Sath Korale. These activities will be commenced from 2025 to 2028.

University of Vocational Technology established by the Act No. 31 of 2008 will be restructured and be renamed as Wimalasurendra Technological University by the year 2026.

The following universities will be added to the Sri Lankan University network by the year 2029.

* International Climate Change University
* University of Agricultural Technology

Better Standards of Education

The present school infrastructure was created by taking into consideration the situation that prevailed decades ago. These infrastructure facilities are therefore now completely outdated. Steps will be taken to modernise the school infrastructure system to face the era of technology which will be dawned in 2040. Funding will be provided by the government.

A programme to equip teachers with new knowledge and training will be implemented in the year 2025.

The establishment of School Boards with representatives from School Development Societies and Past Pupils Associations will be completed within the period from 2025 to 2027.

School education will be revised with a focus on soft skills, life skills and moral values. The system of examinations and evaluations will be revisited enabling the students to start university education at the age of 17 years.

“English for All” programme which provides English education to all the schoolchildren will be implemented within the next decade. It has been planned to recruit 2500 English teachers as a short-term remedy to fill the vacancies for English teachers throughout the country; 1000 retired teachers, 400 from Teaching Colleges and 1100 graduates recruited through a competitive examination will come under the aforementioned 2500 new teachers. The graduates recruited will be given a special training for a period of 3 months before their posting.

Steps will be taken to change the method of compilation of school textbooks, and to revise the curricula to with a focus on interesting approaches to subject matter.

The main objective of education would be the development of the personalities and characters of students while equipping them with new knowledge and skills, creativity and self-confidence.

The foundation of the future generation is laid by the pre-schools. A special programme will be launched to improve and regulate preschool education, along with a standard training for pre-school teachers.

Health is the Greatest Wealth

Sri Lanka has free health service. But, is health service truly free? The less fortunate have to be in the waiting list for years even to get an essential treatment such as cardiac surgeries. Our health service must be perceived at a new angle, and an atmosphere where optimal service is provided to the people must be created.

A favourable environment will be built for doctors, nurses, other medical professionals and members of the supporting staff, to carry out their duties in a better manner. A key expectation of improving the condition of healthcare personnel is to reduce the brain drain.

Local and foreign training opportunities for the medical staff headed by the doctors will be expanded.

Medical Officers will be provided facilities to obtain the postgraduate degrees in the country itself.

In Sri Lanka, we have skilled and eminent Medical Officers serving all over the country. Our health service is also equipped with well-experienced supportive cadres. Therefore, we need to upgrade our health services to a higher standard to offer medical treatments to foreigners. On one hand, it will bring in foreign exchange and on the other, it will create a background to upgrade the healthcare facilities offered to the general public through the money generated through medical tourism.

With this objective also in mind, we will rebuild the Colombo National Hospital as a modern hospital with international facilities. It is expected to be converted into one of the key hospitals in South Asia.

The conditions of government hospitals located across the country are to be upgraded. Government hospitals will be constructed in proportion to the population ratio and the healthcare services will be upgraded to an optimal level within the next 15 years.

The Medical Research Institute will be strengthened with modern technology with the intention of making it the supreme research laboratory in the region.

With the objective of ensuring the availability of high quality medicine, steps will be taken to establish a Pharmaceutical Standardisation Institute recognised by the international standardisation institutes.

Proper measures will be taken to minimise waste through a smart healthcare service using Artificial Intelligence, digitalisation and automation.

Traditional and indigenous medicine will be promoted and preserved. We will introduce a system to gift the invaluable knowledge of traditional and indigenous medicine to the future generation.

New laws will be introduced to subject private hospitals to proper regulation.

The establishment of private hospitals in all nine provinces shall be encouraged.

Special attention will be provided to introduce a resilient health care insurance scheme enabling all citizens to receive treatments from any hospital of their preference.

Beyond the Horizon

Steps will be taken to link our country more with the world not only through the air and sea, but also via land.

Palali International Airport expansion activities will commence in the year 2026.

We will commence the establishment of an international airport in Hingurakgoda.

Colombo Harbour will be further expanded and upgraded it to a level where it could compete with the international harbours.

Trincomalee Harbour development activities which will be done with the assistance of India, will be started in 2026.

Harbours across the country will be gradually developed and modernised.

City Splendour

The area from Kalutara to Negombo will be developed into one extensive megapolis. These city planning activities will be carried out in consultation with Surbana Jurong Pvt Ltd of Singapore.

Galle, Kandy, Nuwara Eliya and Trincomalee will be transformed into megapolises enriched with all modern-day facilities.

One more sub-city will be developed and equipped with main facilities in addition to the city which is considered the capital of each district.

State-of-the-art facilities in par with international standards will be given to all the cities thus created and developed.

At present, even basic facilities are not available in many cities across the country. Adequate sanitary facilities are not available even in the Colombo District. Such inadequacies have been identified and a programme is planned to be launched in 2025 to address these issues.

The sewage systems currently existing in most of the main cities are decades old. We will develop and improve the conditions of urban sewage systems.

We will make the water supply to cities systematic. We will provide tap water to the dry zone, central hills, coastal areas and other areas that face scarcity of water.

Improvements to Transport

We have made future plans for the sectors of transport and highways with the aim of providing sustainable green transport services.

We will use digital technologies from issuing driving licenses to driving vehicles.

In order to encourage the use of electrical vehicles, we will establish charging centres around the country.

We will regulate public transport.

While continuing the current road developments, we will design a road network which will suit the needs of the future.

The construction of Kandy Highway will be continued.

The above mentioned tasks will be commenced in 2025.

A Key to the North

From ancient times, the Northern Province held an important key to the country’s economy. Even though, the northern economy regrettably collapsed due to the decades-long war, we have already launched plans to revive the country’s economy through the Northern Province. Our aim is to strengthen the North into being a major economic stronghold which renders a greater contribution to the Western Province as well as to our economy.

Water scarcity has been a burning issue in the North for many years. We have already launched a seawater desalination project and more projects of similar nature are yet to be implemented.

‘River for Jaffna’ project has been given the foremost priority in the list of newly commencing water supply projects and it will be commenced in the year 2027. We will rebuild the Punarin Tank in 2026 and refurbish all other small tanks scattered in the Northern Province. A reservoir will be built across the Paliaru River which falls to the sea at Mannar.

We will transform the Pooneryn new town into a stronghold of renewable energy.

Jaffna will be developed as a Technological Education Hub.

‘Saraswathi Mahal’ constructed with Indian aid will be further developed as a centre for the promotion of Tamil arts and culture.

A Tamil Literary Festival will be launched with the same glamour and scale as the internationally renowned Galle Literary Festival.

The economic, social, and cultural ties between South India and the Northern Province will be further strengthened by developing the air, maritime and land based transportation modes.

Revival of the Eastern Province

Trincomalee will be transformed into one of the major economic centres equipped with all aspects such as transport, energy, industries, ports, naval, and aviation. The transformation will be supported by the Government of India.

We will develop the Verigalara to Panama-Kumana coastline to utilize them optimally in the tourism industry.

We will commence Hedaoya Water Project in 2025.

A Brighter Future for the Plantation Community

A Gazette Notification is already issued increasing the wages of plantation workers. In addition to this, a number of specific measures to uplift the living standards of the plantation community will be taken in future.

Steps will be taken to transfer the freehold ownerships of the houses and land to the plantation community, in order to transform their current lives in line rooms to better standards of living. Thus, in future, the plantation community will be living in villages instead of line rooms and this project will be started in the year 2025.

We will launch a proper mechanism to provide facilities such as land required for the plantation community to engage in other cultivation activities.

The Sri Pada National College of Education will be expanded and developed with the intention of training talented youth in the plantation community as a solution for the present vacancies for teachers in estate schools.

The subject streams offered in estate schools will be expanded and more facilities will be provided for science subjects.

Special attention will be given to improving the healthcare and sanitary facilities in plantation areas.

‘Aswesuma’ will be provided to low-income families in the plantation sector.

Towards a Prosperous Nation

The true meaning of progress is gradually elevating the social standard and the standard of living of people. The society comprises of vulnerable, not quite vulnerable and empowered groups, and the contribution of all these groups is required for the economic development of the country. On the other hand, the benefits of development should be equally distributed among all these communities. That alone will lead us to a prosperous nation.

Laws for Justice

None of the political leaders who have boasted about catching thieves took action or showed interest in passing the necessary laws to ensure justice.

We did not waste time bragging but discussed with the IMF and adopted modern anti-corruption laws, based on global best practices to prevent bribery and corruption.

We will be implementing the Anti-Corruption Agenda to make our country the least corrupt State in South Asia through the following action;

1. Full commitment to eradicating corruption
2. Strengthening institutions for a transparent future
3. Recovery of stolen assets
4. Collaboration with international partners

Further, under this process,

* Anti-Corruption Act No. 09 of 2023 will be fully enforced

* A National Anti-Corruption Plan will be formulated and implemented from 2025 to 2029

* The National Audit Act will be revised to strengthen audit functions

* Asset, liability, and interest disclosures will be made transparent and efficient

* Financial crime and money laundering regulations will be tightened

* Anti-Corruption laws and investigations will be stregnthened

* Company law will be amended and ownership benefits framework will be aligned with the standards of the Financial Action Task Force (FATF)

* Public procurement will be made transparent

* The list of organisations receiving tax relief will be published

* The Right to Information Act will be further strengthened

Empowered Women

The female population in Sri Lanka is 50.7%.

We are taking various actions to protect the rights of minorities. But what have we truly done to protect the rights of the majority of the population, which is women?

We are determined to create a society where women are respected and treated equally. A society which enables women to be independent will be and empowered will be the objective. The basic laws required for this purpose have already been formulated. Women Empowerment Act has already been passed.

A separate commission for women’s rights will be established as per the Women Empowerment Act.

We will formulate new policies to support the women suffering from poverty.

The current process of liberating women from the burden of micro-finance loans and other debts will be further expanded.

We will provide concessional loans to female-headed families at a maximum of Rs.1,000,000 at an interest rate of 3%, and more opportunities will be provided for self-employment.

We will take measures to prevent violence against women including harassment at home, on the streets and at work.

The number of female police officers will be increased to ensure the maintenance of regular and well-functioning Women and Children Affairs Units in every Police Station.

Around 50.7% of Sri Lanka’s population are women. In order to ensure equality, we will implement a special programme to boost female representation in politics and business.

We have planned a programme to work together with other SAARC countries to enact legislation for women’s rights. A regional conference on the rights of women will be organized in Sri Lanka.

The above-mentioned action will be completed during the period from 2025 to 2030.

A Better Tomorrow the Children of the Nation

We will formulate the necessary laws to ensure children’s human rights, and child rights while protecting them from abuse, delinquency and child sexual exploitation, within the year 2025.

Laws are already being drafted in collaboration with the UNESCO, against the uploading of children’s images to cyberspace by infringing their privacy. Necessary steps will be taken to create a more appropriate model for the protection of the child with respect to child victims.

We will introduce rules to protect children’s safety, opportunities and rights by regulating children’s homes, pre-schools, tuition classes, sports training institutes and daycare centres.

Counselling services will be made available to children who feel isolated in the present digitalized society. We will take all necessary action for the same under our government both at inside and outside the school system.

The above tasks will be complete in 2029.

The post Yes, we can! appeared first on DailyNews.
