FOR YOU
A DEVELOPED COUNTRY
NAMAL VISION
2
Venerable Monks, Priests, Brothers and Sisters,
MyVision ForA Developed Sri Lanka
In the 76 yearssinceindependence, the decade of2005-2014markedits Golden

Rajapaksa with his unparalleled service for our motherland through his unwavering

freedom of living in one country for all Sri Lankans.

would lift Sri Lanka towards a developed state.All Sri Lankans, united by equality in
diversity worked hand in hand to make Sri Lanka the fastest-growing country in the
world.

Portand MattalaAirportbasedon along-termplanwith cleareconomicgrowth
targets.The transportation system covering the entire country, including highways
and miles-long bridges, was built to connect the North and the South and distribute

plants and irrigation systems were built to meet all that development needs. Marvels
such as the LotusTower were built to provide modern technological facilities to the
youth. None of them were isolated constructs.They are all interrelated sustainable
national resources.
But Sri Lanka was dragged back into a dark age by the government that was

completelystalledinjustfourfailedyears.Theamountofpublicdebtincreasedand
by 2019, the country's economy was about to collapse. State security weakened
and eventually, terrorism rose its ugly head. Mother Lanka again succumbed to a
miserable fate.
It is with great hope that you elected the Sri Lanka PodujanaPeramuna in 2020
to rebuild our broken motherland. But just as we started to raise our head again,

world for two long years.After being shut down for months, the country's economy
deteriorated further. But with the help of the armed forces, health professionals and
public service as well as all those who volunteered, we managed to save the lives
of hundreds of thousands of people who otherwise would have succumbedto the

government employees, subsidise the low-income residents, vaccinate all people,
and even pay instalments for the loans taken by the previous governments.
3
But the economic crisis, which was already severe, worsened. I admit that more
suitable decisions could have been taken regarding certain matters.The people
who suffered due to all these issues took to the streets to release their pressure. But
the people's struggle was soon turned to violence by some local and foreign forces
to achieve their heinous political agendas.At that critical moment, we stepped
down without harming any of the protesters, because our state is worth a million
times more to us thanpoliticalpositionpower. Itwas a valuablelessonfor the whole
world about non-violence in governance.

consecutiveyearsandasaMinisterduringaverychallengingtwo-yearperiod.At
the age of 38, as the youngest presidential candidate in history, I wholeheartedly
accepted the challenge of running for this year's presidential election from the Sri
Lanka Podujana Peramuna. I have the obligation to build a developed country for
you by protecting the national policies of the left-leaning political camp founded by

By integrating sustainable solutions for the challenges of the 21st century, and the

where the development of this country was stopped. I am ready to shoulder that

I pledge to you that the country that was broken by the economic crisis will be
freed from it and developed safely, just as Mahinda Rajapaksa liberated and united
the country that was torn apart by war. I pledge to protect the unity of our country,
protect the democratic values of the republic, protect the state assets, protect the
Sambuddha Sasana, and protect the freedom of all citizens while achieving the

Namal Rajapaksa
4
CONTENTS

17

18

19

20

21

2.

INNOVATION
22

23

24

25

26

27

28

29

6

7

8

9

10
1.

STATE PRIORITIES
11

12

13

15

16

5

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

3.

INVESTMENT
40

41
42

43
4.

FREEDOM
44

45

46

47
6
IMMEDIATE RELIEF, FORYOU
The country™s economy is currently almost entirely driven by the

approachto resolvingthe economiccrisis, it is notthe optimumsolution.
While it may be helpful that the government revenue is increased, it
is certainly disadvantageous that the wider economic activity of the

Therefore, while we aim to achieve the government's revenue and

through a rapid relief programme.

FULFILMENTFOR ALL

development is to keep the people from hunger.That is our immediate priority.

person consume at least three healthy meals a day.

IMMEDIATE TAXRELIEF

citizenswillbesystematicallyrevised.Thepossiblelossof revenue, asaresult,

revision will be spent on buying more goods and services which will in turn
boost the country™s production and increase the market revenue.
7

SAMURDHI STRENGTHENED
Low-income citizens who are without a steady source of income will be given

per day.

RELIEF FORYOUR UTILITY BILLS

currently being forced upon the people will be immediately lowered to an
optimal level.

AFFORDABLE FERTILISER

farmers will receive a permanent fertiliser subsidy scheme.A reasonable price

seasons.

value addition.

ENERGISINGECONOMIC ACTIVITY
Import restrictions which are killing the small, medium and large enterprises
will be systematically removed allowing the local entrepreneurs to reconnect
with their global supply chains and quickly revive their businesses.
Parallel to the imported goods, local manufacturers will also be supported.

economic crops and with local manufacturers to produce high-quality goods,
while also connecting them to the international markets.

NEW JOBOPPORTUNITIES
A special project will be implemented to recruit citizens for local and foreign

A new personal loan scheme will be introduced to cover the initial cost of
recruitment and travel for those who are selected for foreign employment.
8

EMPOWERING YOUTHFINANCIALLY

Tariffs on internet connectivity will be immediately revised as an essential
service needed for the above jobs.
A personal loan scheme will be introduced for the youth to buy computers and
other essential hardware.

TOURISM BOOSTER
A SpecialTourism Promotion Project will be launched with the priority of
increasing the foreign revenue earned through tourism, which is essential for
economic stabilisation.

management changes.
BothairportswillprovideadditionalfacilitiestoattractthepopularBudget
Airlines.
Low-interest loans will be introduced specially for people working in the travel,
tourism and leisure sectors to develop their businesses.

PROFESSIONAL PUBLIC SERVICES

reducingthetime wastage,costoftravelandunnecessarypaperworkwhen

Migrant workers will be able to renew their passports within a week after
introducing printing facilities at key Sri Lankan embassies.

UNINTERRUPTED MEDICINE SUPPLY

so that all patients island-wide will receive essential healthcare services without
delays.
9

FAST-TRACKING INVESTMENTS
A special investmentfacilitationschemewillbe implementedto securequick

offered to such investors.

PERFORMANCE MONITORING SYSTEM
All the above short-term relief projects will be implemented, monitored and

NAMAL VISION
State Priorities
National Interests
Economic Growth
Social Progression
Environmental Sustainability
Innovation
State Sector
Agriculture Sector
Manufacturing Sector
Service Sector
Investment
Entrepreneurship
Human Resources
Research and Development
Infrastructure
Freedoms
Economic Freedom
Political Freedom
Cultural Freedom
Religious Freedom
This policy programmeis developed
based on the above Integrated

time-based targets, and with innovation
strategies to achieve them in the
short-term, mid-term and the long-term.
The main goal of the Integrated
DevelopmentModelistorealisethe
State Priorities. To do that we follow a
strategic innovation approach. And to
drive that innovation we need a strategic
Investment Framework. Individual
Freedoms must be secured and are in
of the Integrated Development Model.
Most of the development work in this
country fell short because of a lack of
integration with other related sectors and
stakeholders. Namal Vision is built on
Integration. Therefore, it is called the
Integrated Development Model.
10
INTEGRATED DEVELOPMENT MODEL
1. STATE PRIORITIES
12
1.1

NATIONAL INTERESTS

Republic. In other words, the sovereignty of the state lies with its people.
Whether you are a Sinhala,Tamil, Muslim, Malay, Burgher, orVedi, every
citizen of the republic shares equal ownership and right to rule this state.
We strongly believe that all development plans and programmes must
necessarily aim to protect the national interests of the republic.

PROTECTION OFTHE UNITARY STATE

arestillsomeseparatistpoliticalgroupsactingagainsttherepublic.Asithas
always been, our main policy is to protect the republic from such dangers
by implementing all necessary security measures.

A LIFEWITHOUT FEAR
As much as we secure the republic, we must also ensure the internal

the people so that they can live without fear.
All state intelligence and security forces will undergo a complete review, and

willbeappointedtorelevantpositionsandthesafetyofthecitizensaswell
as the foreigners in Sri Lanka will be assured.
We will strictly not allow any form of suppression, humiliation or violence
against any ethnic, religious, or political groups.
All possible actions will be taken to prevent violence against women or
children,whilethelawwillbeupheldstrictlyandpromptlyinallsuchcases.

underworld and narcotics.

EQUALLY FRIENDLYYET NON-ALIGNED FOREIGN
POLICY
Located at a strategically important positionalong the naval and air routes
connecting the global East andWest, foreign states have always affected

global economy, we are also affected by the international market dynamics.
13
As always, our policy will be to stand independent without aligning
ourselves with any foreign state or global camp but keep equally friendly
international relations with all states.
Any attempt by any foreign state to intervene in our internal affairs will be
promptly prevented thereby preserving our independence.

PROTECTING REPRESENTATIVE DEMOCRACY
Theequalsovereigntyheldbythecitizensoftherepublicispractically

fair elections.

that freedom even more.

PROTECTINGTHE CONSTITUTIONAL RIGHTS

people, including human rights.Therefore, we are all bound to protect the

Any person or group that has been found guilty of violating constitutional
rights will be brought to justice by upholding the rule of law.

PROTECTINGAND NURTURINGTHE BUDDHA SASANA

values such as equal kindness to all animals, tolerance in both happiness
andsadness,truthfulnessin allcasesand eventhe principlesof governance

The historical heritage that marvels the visitors and the philosophical
knowledge base of theTheravada tradition was gifted to the world through
the Buddha Sasana.
We shall respect the freedom to hold any religious belief by any citizen not
just as a constitutional clause but also by the Bauddha principle.We are
bound to protect the religious freedom of all citizens.
14
To protect and nurture the Buddha Sasana, we plan to enrich the young

Every temple will be completed with the essentialfacilities while a special
medical insurance scheme has been plannedfor the elderly monks who
have dedicated their lives to the Sasana.There will also be a special
programme to support the parents of the monks.

protect the scripture of Sri Saddharma for future generations.
15
1.2

NEW ECONOMIC LEAP
Below are our policy targets to stabilise the economy and bring about long-

GDP TARGET
M

ACHIEVING POSITIVETRADE BALANCE

STRONG FOREIGN RESERVES

future emergencies.

GOVERNMENT REVENUE UP - EXPENDITURE
CONTROLLED

while transparently managing the budget approved at the beginning of
the year.
While meeting state revenue targets we will gradually revise the indirect

people.
While increasing the number of individualsand businessespaying income

16

NATIONAL EMERGENCY FUND
ApermanentRupeeSavingsReservewillbebuilttofaceeventsofnational
emergencies.A certain percentage of the annual income will be allocated
to this fund.

DEBT-SERVICING ECONOMY

building an economy capable of repaying all types of loans as quickly as
possible.
A country with a small economy like ours has to borrow in a planned

STABLE RUPEE

effective management of the trade balance and foreign debt.

SOLUTION TOUNEMPLOYMENT
The sustainable solution to the economic crisis is to provide high-paying
jobopportunitiestoourworkforce.Thelowest unemploymentrateinour

creation and workforce training is one of our key economic policies for the

Priority will be given to provide jobs in highly demanded sectors such as

facilities for job-creating businesses and relevant training institutions.

higher than a low single digit.Arrangements will be made to provide job
opportunities to all the graduates.
17
Since one of our prioritiesis to increase the remittance income and to give

high-levelforeignjobs.Also,arrangementswillbemadeforinternationally

abroad.

INFLATIONAT LOWER SINGLE DIGIT

while a comprehensivestrategic actionplan will be implementedto reduce
the increase in cost of living.

POLICY RATESAT SINGLE DIGIT

18
1.3

AMONGTHETOP 50 IN SOCIAL
PROGRESSION
The internationally recognised method to measure the social development

Standard of Living. Sri Lanka has always been ahead in terms of social
development because of the free health and free education policies
supplemented by wide social security programmes.
Sri Lanka is currently ranked 78th out of 193 countries and belongs to the

O

targets are as follows:

HEALTHYAND SAFE LIVES

people's health, shows that a country's health policy and its standards are
at a high level.

health services, balanced work-life and the natural environment which is
less polluted than many other countries.
It is our main policy to develop targeted public healthcare facilities in such

NEW AGEEDUCATION
Proper education is essential for the development of a society.The ethical

technicalskillsrequiredforeconomicgrowthareacquiredthroughformal
education and applied learning.

education by innovating syllabi, teaching methods and teaching media to
achieve these objectives.

in formal education in school as well as after leaving school.
19

means increasing the total time spent in formal education even after leaving
schoolandwhile working.Themore timespentin formaleducation, the
more successful individuals become.

DECENT LIVING STANDARD
The third aspect of social development is the standard of living of the
people.Accesstocleanandnutritiousfood,health,liveablehousing,
decent job opportunities, entertainment and security are the hallmarks of a
high standard of living.
The higher the per capita Gross National Income, the higher the standard

to raise the per capita gross nationalincome to the level of a developed
country.This correlates with the above economic growth targets.
20
1.4

ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
The environment, including clean air, lush greenery, clean water, fertile soil
andwildlife,isthebeatingheartofanycountry.Therefore,theenvironment
should be protected and enhanced, while limiting pollution.
Just as human activities have negative effects on the environment, those
effects will in turn have negative effects on humans.
Emissions from the burning of fossilfuels to generate energy for industry
and transportation have increased the global temperature and drastically
changed the climate.This is the reason for the irregularity of the natural
rains. It has already caused major issues for traditional farming and people's
everyday lives.
Therefore, economic growth and social development should be done while
minimising the damage to ecological sustainability. If not, all development

OPTIMISING NATURAL RESOURCES
With a relatively small land area, Sri Lanka has limited natural resources.We
so far haven™t found any fossilfuels like coal, crude oil or gas.Therefore,
it is our main policy to make more use of our natural resources such as
water, sunlight and wind to generate the necessary energy to achieve the
above economic and social development goals.This will gradually reduce
our dependence on fossil fuel imports.
The soil is becoming barren in some areas due to over-cultivation for a long
time. It is our policy to constantly maintain soil fertility to increase agricultural
output essential for the above economic and social development goals.
Many farmers did not approve of the measures taken to prevent the use

human body.We have also stated above that agricultural production will be
increased for economic growth targets.Therefore, it may not be possibleto
prevent the use of synthetic chemicals at present.
There is a risk of rapid depletion of underground mineral resources such as
gems, graphite, quartz, mineral sand, limestone, phosphate, and sea sand.
Steps will be taken to carry out mining industries in a more formal and
environmentally friendly manner so that these resources can be maintained
over a long period.

forest cover. It is one of the reasons for the high health status of the people
as it contributes to the clean air which we all breathe.Therefore, our policy

forests simply for the sake of economic growth.
21

MINIMAL ENVIRONMENTAL DAMAGE
We have stated above that industrial production will be increased as per
the economic growth targets.This will increase the production of industrial
waste which will pollute the environment even more.
Therefore, investment priority will be given to innovations that can minimise
the solid, liquid and gaseous waste emitted by industries.

have been heavily polluted.As a result, the water has become unsuitable
notonlyforhumanconsumptionbutalsoformarineanimals.As aresult,
tourism attraction is also lost, adversely affecting the economy.
Therefore, investments will be made in innovative enterprises that can
produce environmentally friendly substitutes for plastics, and in innovative
waste management and recycling businesses.

ANIMAL WELFARE
Animals also share the same Earth that humans live in. So, we recognise
their right to the natural environment and will guarantee their rights.
It is our policy to protect endangered animals.Wildlife is a major tourist
attraction in Sri Lanka.Therefore, economic and social activity will be done in
such a way as not to harm the natural environment where those animals live.
Instead of putting animals' lives at risk, investments will be made in
innovations that can solve the issue of crop damage from wild animals.
A joint mechanism with anti-cruelty organisations will be set up for the
protection of free-living, abandoned and injured animals.

APPROVALS FOR DEVELOPMENT
Investment-leddevelopmentprojectsneedtobeimplementedinthe

obstacle in such cases is the time and cost of environmental reports and
approvals.

such a way that environmental standards and recommendations that can be
practically met by investors are designed and made available in advance,
which will then be checked and approved rapidly.

CARBON CREDIT

of the world.A special mechanism will be implemented in this regard at the
diplomatic level.
2. INNOVATION
23
2.1

PUBLIC SECTOR OPTIMISATION
To achieve the goals of integrated development, the entire political system,
including the public service, will be adapted to international standards and
will be modernised in a manner suitable for the 21st century.

E-GOVERNANCE
The easiest and fastest way to implement many different interrelated sectors
is to connect them using an electronicsystem. It willprovide facilitiesfor

mode.

standards will be developed and installed to cover the entire public service
delivery network.
Public services will be made easier and faster by installing the Electronic

no need to repeatedly provide the information of the concerned person to
each institution, thereafter.
This will avoid the waste of time and money caused by people coming to

willbeprovidedtoreceivethoseservicesintheirownarea,andwithin
a year most of these services will be available to be received from the
convenience at home.
Also, people will be able to get accurate and real-time data and information
transparently about public affairs.

NO SALE OF STATE ENTERPRISES
It is not our policy to sell public assets including state enterprises. It is

innovatingandstreamliningthe processesofstate-ownedlands,natural
resources and enterprises.

necessary capital and technical support.
24

END OF FRAUDAND CORRUPTION SLOGAN
Some people have been making accusations for a long time that there
is fraud and corruption in government administration and public service.
But it seems that they only misuseit as a political slogan without actually
workingtoprovetheallegations.Itonlyhindersthepreventionofrealfraud
and corruption.

investment mechanism in line with the corporate sector will be set up
with full transparency.The methods will be developed as appropriate for
each sector. Necessary amendments and new laws will be passed for this
purpose.
A parliamentarycommittee consistingof MPs fromthe mainopposition
political parties will be formed to scrutinise and certify all proposed capital

before it happens.

FORENSIC AUDITOF ALLLOANS
A forensic audit of all the loans taken for infrastructure and human
development in the past will be undertaken and the report will be openly
published.
This will include the long-term development loans taken at low interest
from multilateral organisations such as theWorld Bank and theAsian

Also, a forensic audit will be conductedon how the money obtained
through International Sovereign Bonds at high interest was used, and that
report will also be openly published.

STATE BALANCE SHEET
The market value of the physical and human resources developed thus far
and the public money, loans, grants and direct investments that were used
for such developments will be assessed to prepare a Balance Sheet for the
State.
Thereby,peoplewillgetanup-to-dateunderstandingofthe assetsand
liabilities of the state.
25

HIGH-QUALITYPUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
The public administrative service is one of the fundamental pillarson
which the success of a state depends. It will be modernised according to
international standards.

360-degree feedback from the people, employees, and political leadership
will be set up promptly.

high-quality services to the people using modern technology.
Permanent Secretaries will be appointed for the necessary government
bodies for the consistent implementation of these policies for a long period.

UNINTERRUPTED FREE HEALTHCARE

Through this, information such as patient test reports and drug prescriptions

This will avoid queues and congestion caused by frequent visits to the
hospital.
O

private sector employees.

transformed, fraud, corruption and waste will be reduced, and medicines
will be provided at affordable prices to the people.
Private hospital services often reduce the pressure on government

thereby reducing the private healthcare charges.
In competitive lifestyles, there is a high tendency to develop mental illnesses

promoting work-life balance.
26

CLEAN DRINKINGWATER FORALL
Every person has an equal right to clean drinking water. Sri Lanka has
already made great progress in drinkingwater supply, but a comprehensive
programme will be implemented to continuously meet the drinking water
needs of every person living in any area under any weather conditions in
the future.

STRUCTURAL CHANGES IN EDUCATION
We aspire tocreate abalancedcitizenthroughteachingsubjectsof Science,
Technology, English, Mathematics, Mother Language, Religion,Arts and
Entrepreneurship.
All education syllabi in primary, secondary and tertiary sectors will be
reviewed within one year and upgraded to suit the market and social needs
of today and future world.All these activities will be done quickly and at a

will be introduced from school to university.
All schoolteachers, university lecturers and career counsellors will receive

to manage their performance, and an additional bonus will be added to the
salary based on their measured target achievements.
Both public and private schools will be subjected to international
standardisation.

A university development programme will be implemented to bring Sri
Lanka'sstate universitiesto the topofthe internationalrankings, andthe
universitycourseswillbeadjustedtosuittheglobaljobmarkettoresolve
the issue of unemployed graduates.

non-state universities and other degree-granting institutions to maintain
the standard of all degree courses.
A specialsystemwillbe implementedunderthe MinistryofEducationto
regulate large-scale private tuition-class education.
27

INNOCENT CHILDREN

country.Therefore, our irrevocable responsibility today is to provide the
children with balanced nutrition, a sound mentality, a winning personality
and a virtuous character.
Arrangements will be made to provideTriposha and necessary vitamins
to pregnant mothers and newborn children through the village child and
maternity clinic.

preschool education through Samurdhi.
Mothers workingabroad, fathers being drunk oraddicted to drugs, and
parents divorcing or living apart, leaving their children helpless and

be introduced to provide the necessary care and facilities to such children.

monthly support to such children.With such aid, a closely monitored work
assignment will be implemented in which the mothers of the Samurdhi
families who volunteer in the respective villages will be entitled to a stipend
for preparing food for and taking care of the children.

WOMEN TO THEFOREFRONT
Aprogrammewillbeimplementedtoalloweverywomanwhowantsto
earn income but is not engaged in a permanent job.Women will be given
priority for small and medium-scale industries and food manufacturing
industries.Women will be given equal opportunities for direct and indirect
income generation programmes in the production zones that will be
developed near their village.
A hotline number and a mobile application will be introduced to call
when a woman is in danger or trying to get help including psychological
counselling.

ARMED FORCESAND POLICE
The responsibility and obligation of the armed forces, police and civil
defence forces is to protect the constitution and democratic institutions of
the state. It is our policy to provide them with the leadership and facilities
they need to do their service without any inconvenience.
28

and hostel facilities will be improved.The armed forces headquarters built
by us will be completed.

10,000 new policewomen will be recruited for this purpose.
A museum and a library will be established for future generations to
learn about the humanitarian war against terrorism that hindered the
development of this country for 30 years. It will be open to local as well as
foreign tourists.
Modern knowledge and training of international standards will be

at the scene of the offence.

FORTHOSEWITH SPECIAL NEEDS
Brothers and sisters with special needs living in our society will be provided
with all essential facilities, income-generating opportunities and equal
treatment as per international standards.

NEW MEANING FOR SAMURDHI

earners, will continue as before with improvements.
Aspecialcommunityprogrammewillbeimplementedatthevillagelevel,

The outstandingsalary issuesandother problemsof theSamurdhi

Samurdhi Movement, will be resolved immediately.

RESPECTINGTHE RETIRED STATE EMPLOYEES
Sri Lanka's population is ageing rapidly.To achieve the above development
goals, anintegrated programmewillbe implementedtosupplementthe
young workforce with the able retired community.
AVoluntary Service Pool will be established where senior citizens who can

residence of its members, the opportunity will be given to perform public
support services or similar community services in government institutions
frequented by the public.
29

will be given to all senior citizens, while the current insurance schemes and
other privileges will also be increased.

MODERN DISASTER MANAGEMENT

servicesandothertechnologiesforaccurateforecastingwhichisessential

All the necessary facilities will be provided in advance to the areas where a

YOUTH-LED SOCIAL INNOVATION
A community of young people will be organised who can create innovative
solutions for Sri Lanka's social issues and have the interest and commitment
to take those solutions to society.
Thisgroup of volunteerswillimplementunique programmes suchas
increasing the political participation of youth, implementing the active
nation programme, environmental protection projects, acting on animal
safety, and developing of positive attitude among the youth.
This community that will innovatively solve economic, social and
environmental problems from the national level to the grassroots level of
the village and city will be connected with international youth organisations

A contributory savings scheme will be introduced to cover the cost of their
wedding ceremony which is one of the special dreams of the youth.
30
2.2

TRANSFORMATIONOF THE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR

AGRO-MODERNISATION
Water, seeds and fertiliser will be provided to cultivate all arable land.
By setting a guaranteed price scheme for grains including paddy, the
farmer's return on investment will be secured.
Modern technical methods that can increase yields will be introduced to all

from the production and supply of high-yielding seeds to the sale of crops.

brought by crops such as cinnamon, pepper, and cardamom are closely

given to those crops as well.

fruits to be produced according to the market demand and seasonsto
mitigate the wastage of crops and to maintain stable prices.

A permanent solution to the wage dispute between the tea estate owners
and the workers will be provided with the agreement of all parties.

Rubber cultivation and production will be maintained steadily.

The contribution of the agricultural research and production support

31

that is affordable to the people while giving priority to local production.
Investments will be made in agricultural innovations that can achieve high
yields without polluting soil and water.

OCEAN ECONOMY REVOLUTION

to is more than twenty times the land of Sri Lanka. Efforts will be made to
resolve this pending matter as soon as possible.

will be encouraged with strategic investments.

vesselswithcommunicationandstoragefacilitieswillbesupportedforthe

training courses and degrees in marine engineering technology aimed at
the shipping and logistics job market.

international market.

especially to women entrepreneurs.

programme will be implemented using the inland reservoirs.

ANIMAL INDUSTRIES
Large-scale industries raising animals for milk, eggs and meat will be
encouraged to be more humane in their process.
Backyard rearing of poultry and other animals will be facilitated as an
opportunity to earn an additional monthly income, especially for the village
households.

32
2.3

MANUFACTURINGSECTOR VALUE
CREATION
The production industries of the secondary sector of the economy will add

decade.

HIGH-PRECISION TECHNOLOGYMANUFACTURING
Sri Lankan workers have a special talent for high-precision manufacturing.
A policy and practical programme will be set up with international
stakeholders and investors to utilise this capability to produce modern
technology products for the global market.
The programme will integrate technology and investment facilities, global
market access, and strategic international partners.
Small and medium-sized technologymanufacturing industriesthat are
already operating, such as electronics manufacturing, will be linked to
createregionalmanufacturingclustersandprovidedwiththe necessary
technology,investmentandglobalmarketaccesstoupgradetohigh-
precision products.
The necessary technology, investment and market facilities for the

will be done by redesigning the local regulatory and legal frameworks to
meet international requirements.
Prioritywillbegiventothisnewmanufacturingsectorinachievingthe
above economic goals.

ENERGY PRODUCTION FOR EXPORT
It is our policy to make Sri Lanka a regional centre for renewable energy

electricity produced from renewable energy sources such as hydro, solar,
wind and green hydrogen to neighbouring countries.

CHEMICALSANDPHARMACEUTICALS TO
INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS

international-grade chemicals using domestic and imported raw materials.
Investments will be made to develop Sri Lanka into a regional centre
for pharmaceuticals and other health products manufacturing through
automation technology adaptation.
33

SUSTAINABLE MINERAL INDUSTRIES

graphite, quartz, mineral sand, limestone, phosphate, sea sand etc. will be
facilitatedwiththehelpofthemosteffectiveandmoderntechnologywhich
causes the least harm to the environment.
By adding value to domestic and imported minerals and selling them at
a higherprice in the internationalmarket, we willdouble the revenueof

CONSTRUCTION SECTOR BOOST

will be doubled.

and prioritised as a project of national importance.

recommence immediately.

technologies.

business premises.

FOODAND BEVERAGE PRODUCT REVOLUTION

theinformalsectorproducingfoodandbeveragestomoveintotheformal
economy.
Sri Lanka's traditional food industry will be promoted while research will be
encouraged for new food and beverage products.

preserving vegetables and fruits will be encouraged.

Local sugar production will be doubled, and facilities will be provided for

34

International food manufacturing standards will be implemented across

OPTIMISATION OFAPPAREL MANUFACTURING

industries for a long time.Therefore, all necessary steps will be taken to

The government will provide facilities to reduce production costs while
encouraging investors to develop related industries thereby creating new
jobs and factories in different provinces of the country.
The quality of work and life of the apparel sector employees will be
enhanced.

ECONOMIC ZONESALONGTHE EXPRESSWAYS

35
2.4

INNOVATION INTHE SERVICE SECTOR

TRAVEL, TRADE, TRANSITCENTRE

one of the busiest tourist centres in the region.An advanced technological
environment with modern facilities will be created to attract all types of
travellers,travellingnotonlyonholidaysbutalsoforbusinessmeetings
and international conferences.
A high-quality promotional plan will be implemented to make Sri Lanka

Withtheendofthewar,SriLankabecameaparadiseforforeigntourists.

achievedby 2019but drasticallyfellasa resultofthe EasterSundayAttack.

decade.While increasing the number of tourist arrivals we will also increase
the average timethey spendin the countryandincrease the amountthey
spend during that time.

MattalaAirport will be developed as planned by attracting more tourists.
A modern electronic system will be installed to facilitate and speed up the

The necessary infrastructure will be improved to develop the marine tourism
industry.
Special investment and credit facilities will be provided for the construction
of large and small hotels and domestic accommodation facilities with the

island and facilities will be provided to organise international festivals and
conferences.

reach their destinations quickly.
36
Tourists will be encouraged to purchase goods by reimbursing theValue

A contributory pension scheme will be introduced for tour guides.

FUTURE-PROOFINGTHE FINANCIAL SECTOR

It is unsafe for the entrepreneurs as well as the customers and is also harmful
tothestateeconomy.Therefore,we willintroducethenecessaryregulations

Toreducetheuseofcoinsandnotes,bankcardsandmobilewalletswillbe
promoted.

New investment programmes will be introduced for the development of rural
entrepreneurship.The cooperative banking system will be strengthened
with a focus on providing student loans and youth entrepreneurship credit
facilities.

HEALING HAVEN
Sri Lanka will be developed into one of the world's leading health and
wellness service centres. Public and private integrated investments will be
made to build the world's most advanced private hospitals in the country.
Sri Lanka's private healthcare sector, which is already at a high standard,
will be facilitated to provide services to foreigners in a more formal manner.
SinhalaTraditional Medicine andAyurvedic Medicine, which have been
healing people since time immemorial, will be promoted and brought to
an international standard through strategic investment.

EDUCATION SERVICES CENTRE

the world by building state-of-the-art education facilities in some of the
most beautiful areas in Sri Lanka.
Accordingly, Sri Lanka will be set to recruit more than 10,000 foreign

37

staff and researchers from home and abroad and create a safe environment
for foreign students.
Bydoingso, itwillbepossibletoearnadditionalforeignrevenueand
reduce foreign currency leaving the country.

CREATINGTHE CREATOR ECONOMY

through various social media is a competitive global service sector today.
Such content creators in Sri Lanka will be provided with regulatory and

SRILANKANARTS TO THECULTURALWORLD

and takes them to the international market with modernity.We will support
the development of Sri Lankan artists including songs, music, dance and
acting to reach new global audiences.
Therefore, Sri Lankan artists willbe able to gain international recognition
and make their artworks of higher quality.

RETAIL TRADEREVAMP

engineered to suit current and future needs.
Small shops and their supply chains will be supported with investment
attached to training to grow their income.
Import restrictions and tariffs on clothing, footwear, fashion and jewellery
will be revised to attract tourist customers by developing the trade to
international standards.

All types of restaurants and entertainment services like movie theatres will
be supported to be upgraded. Small restaurants will be facilitated with
investments attached to training to bring them up to formal and hygienic
standards.
38

be renovated to a respectful standard for traders, workers and consumers.
Government regulations will be modernised to increase consumer

from abroad.

TRANSPORT SERVICES UPGRADATION

their highest quality.
But the transport service has notimproved compared to the roads. It has
been over 50 years since transportation was privatised, but private buses
have yet to modernise.
Private buses are often seen being driven irresponsibly putting the
passengers and the pedestrians at risk.The comfort of the passengers

Therefore,newlicensesandcreditfacilitieswillbeprovidedtogradually
phase out old buses and import only modern and comfortable buses of
international standards.
Licenses of errant bus drivers will be suspended, and new licenses will be
issued only after proper counselling and driving training and testing.

and the train timetable and ticketing process will be done entirely through

will be provided for more use of railways for transportation of goods.

connecting the seaports located around the island.
Sri Lanka will be further developed as an international maritime transport
and service centre.
39

IT-BPM TO THENEXTLEVEL

changing.
Therefore, the local companies will be supported to transform into futuristic

LEAP FORWARD SPORTS ECONOMY
By developing Sri Lanka™s sports as a service sector of international
standards, it can be placed as a revenue-generating sector.
Therefore, facilities will be provided for the development of recreational
sports, competitive sports and electronic sports as services.
A fair and systematic process will be introduced from the school level to the
national level to produce professional and disciplined athletes and players
who can win trophies and medals.
Thereby, creating an active population as well as sports personalities of

3. INVESTMENT
41
Alltheaboveinnovationsrequirestrategicinvestmentstoachievethe

Public Private Integrated Investment mechanism in this regard.

an investment.

day-to-day operations of an organisation do not generate income.
Therefore, it is important to distinguish between investments and

3.1

CAPITAL FOR ENTREPRENEURS
InventionsandInnovationsalonedon™tbecomecommerciallysuccessful
enterprises. Entrepreneurship is the production of innovative goods and

The economy of any state develops because of their entrepreneurs. But
they have to take risks for that.
Therefore, arrangements will be made to provide the necessary capital
and other facilities for the development of local entrepreneurs. Integrated
investment programmes will be introduced from startups to large-scale
enterprises in targeted sectors.

will be done through cooperative banks in an enterprise development
model.

entrepreneurs.
NewActs and facilities will be provided to increase investment opportunities
through private equity investment as well as the stock market.

support Social Entrepreneurs who solve socialand environmental issues

by the government because the social enterprises solve part of the issues
which otherwise the government will have to resolve.
42
Barriers to increasing foreign investment will be removed. Necessary
mechanismswillbedevelopedtomakethoseinvestmentstransparently
and formally.

market supply chains.
3.2

HUMAN RESOURCE ENRICHMENT

human resources of this country.

community is decreasing rapidly compared to the aged community.This is

the above economic goals.
Therefore, population growth will be properly managed, and investments
will be made in nutrition and health to keep the population healthy for a
long time.
A special programme will be introduced to protect professional dignity

meet the above development targets.

the school level to the national level to produce healthy citizens of mind
and body.
Investments will be made in programmes that can develop the formal
education, skills and attitudes necessary for rapid economic growth.
Investments will be made in the development of religious and cultural

A special programme will be introduced to make the incarcerated workers
contribute more to the economic process.
3.3

RESEARCH FOR COMMERCIALVALUE

development.Therefore, investments will be made in research for new
products that can be successful in target market segments and for upgrading

43
Investments will be made to create a thriving research culture that will
link private-sector research institutions in addition to universities and
government research institutions.
The intellectual property rights for the new knowledge and products
generated by such research will be available to the government in
proportion to the investments which will in turn earn consistent revenue.
3.4

INVESTMENT IN INFRASTRUCTURE
Both physical and soft infrastructure will be developed for local, regional
and international interconnectivity.

The transport system will be improved and completed to international
standards including high-quality sanitary facilities.
Investments will be made in housing construction following the policy of
providing safe housing to every citizen.
Priority will be given to the planning of towns and villages, the design and

related to the above economic targets.

and constructed per advanced techniques to suit modern and future climate
conditions, with minimum maintenance costs and in an environmentally
friendly manner.
Through the integration of all such constructions, the wastage of resources
and time will be minimised.
Investments will be made to meet the country's energy needs from
renewable sources so that electricity can be continuously supplied to
reduce fuel imports and environmental pollution.
Investments will be made in modern software and hardware to enable
them to be installed and run safely and continuously to bring public sector
services up to international standards.
4. FREEDOM
45

equal freedom.Therefore, while enjoying one's freedom,one should
do it in such a way that it does not interfere with the freedom of another.
People should be given the freedom to make all the above
developments, innovations and investments successfully.And through
those developments, the freedom of the people will be strengthened
in return.
4.1

EXPANDING ECONOMIC FREEDOM
The fastest growth of Sri Lanka's economic freedom took place after the

produceandconsumegoodsand services, andinvesttheirwealth, asthey
please to their best abilities.
To achieve the above-integrated development targets, Sri Lankans living
in this country and abroad should actively contribute to the economy.
Structural, regulatory and legal barriers to do so will be removed and
reorganised to suit the modern world.
Inthepublicsectoraswellasintheprivatesector,marketmonopolieswill
be minimised, and efforts will be made to create a market in which labour,

State and legal protections for individuals' physical property and intellectual
property will be strengthened in line with international standards.

lower single digit.Also, to protect the local entrepreneur, tariffs and other

State regulation will be streamlined by removing obstacles for entrepreneurs
to start new businesses and develop them rapidly.

labour resources.

regulatory and legal barriers.
Thegovernmentwillrefrainas muchaspossiblefromcontrollingthe
economicprocessofthestateandregulationwillbestrengthenedto
protect the national interests, individual rights and business freedoms.
46
4.2

PROTECTING POLITICAL FREEDOM
Every citizen of the republic has equal sovereignty. It cannot be given up.
Accordingly, everycitizenshouldhave anequalrightto havean opinion

and be able to join a political party which represents their views.This is
what we call political freedom.
But as has happened from time to time in history, there are cases where some

some organised groups operate repressively on social media to prevent

operate to destroy the political freedom of individuals by subjecting them
to verbal threats, physical violence and torture.
This uncivilised trend, which is not compatible with the modern world, will
be immediately and permanently controlled and the political freedom of
every citizen of the country will be protected.
The freedom of speech of every citizen will be protected and the rule of
law will be upheld so that no other citizen's freedom of speech or any other
freedom is impeded.
Among the various and divergent views held by the inhabitants on the
affairs of the republic, the most successful proposition will be chosen by
free and fair vote, after peaceful and rational debate.This is democracy.
Efforts will be made immediately to eradicate terrorism, which tries to
achieve its political goals by terrorising the population.
Also, the constitution which legitimates the democratic systems and
structures of the republic will be strengthened and all necessary steps will
be taken to protect the political freedom of the people.
Political education from pre-school to universitywill be introduced into the
curricula.
Political repressions seen in some educational and service institutions will
be ended forever and the ability of every citizen to fully enjoy their political
freedom will be guaranteed.
4.3

CARING FOR CULTURAL FREEDOM
No matter how much economic growth is achieved, if there is no society
with cultural values in it, it will be of no use.
People of any nationality including Sinhala,Tamil, Muslim, Malay, Burgher,
Vedi living in the Republic have equal freedom to hold and practice their
cultural identities.
47
Also, those who hold one cultural identity will not be allowed to discriminate
againstanotherculturalidentityasloworhigh, sothattheceremoniesand
practices built on the cultural roots and beliefs of the respective communities
can be carried out peacefully without disturbing the other communities.

will be increased so that mutual understanding among different cultural

be born through such human interactions.
Linguistic and other structural barriers that may interfere with such

Moreover,artisticandperformanceopportunitieswillbecreated to
showcase the cultural beauty of the Republic to the world.
4.4

RESPECTING RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
Every citizen of the Republic shall have equal freedom to hold, embrace,

The spiritual development of man is greatly supported by religious
teachings.And the moral virtues to be followed for the common good
while living in a society are taught through religions.
But there are also cases where certain religious teachings incite their
followers to act against the other faiths.Therefore, efforts will be made to
ensure that religious teachings will always be in the best interest of the
individual and society.
Moreover, a free environment will be created where every citizencan gain
a broad understanding of various religious beliefs and philosophies by
providing a basic education about various religious teachings to every
citizen as well as through peaceful and respectful conversations.

goals, psychological pressure will be created in individuals.The social
mission of religious places such as temples, shrines and churches and their
clergy are highly important to face such pressures and to withstand the

Therefore,necessarymeasureswillbetakentoprotectandimprovethose
religious places.
This document contains the development
targets for Sri Lanka and the strategies to
achieve them. To make this a reality on the
ground, we all must work together with the
same determination for the betterment of our
country.

each goal and strategy based on this Integrated
Development Model. It will be done at the level
of ministries and relevant government
agencies. We look forward to your active
participation in these programmes.
We will never allow another war to break out in
our homeland again. And we will never again
allow an economic crisis to occur under any
circumstances. I respectfully ask you to vote for
me, and have faith in our party™s ability and my
vision of building a developed country for you.
NEXT STEP
